# Ch10 Stocks Trading Using RL

## Problem statements and key decisions

As you already know, to formulate RL problems, three things are needed:

- Observation of the environment
- Possible actions
- A reward system.

In previous chapters, all three were already given to us, and the internal machinery of the environment was hidden. 

----

In our case, we will implement the basic trading agent in its simplest form. The ***observation*** will include the following information:

- N past bars, where each has open, high, low, and close prices
- An indication that the share was bought some time ago (only one share at a time will be possible)
- Profit or loss that we currently have from our current position (the share bought)

At every step, after every minute's bar, the agent can take one of the following ***actions***:

- ***Do nothing:*** skip the bar without taking an action
- ***Buy a share:*** if the agent has already got the share, nothing will be bought; otherwise, we will pay the commission, which is usually some small percentage of the current price
- ***Close the position:*** if we do not have a previously purchased share, nothing will happen; otherwise, we will pay the commission for the trade

***The reward that the agent receives can be expressed in various ways.*** On the one hand, we can split the reward into multiple steps during our ownership of the share.

- In that case, the reward on every step will be equal to the last bar's movement.
- On the other hand, the agent will receive the reward only after the close action and receive the full reward at once.
- At first sight, both variants should have the same final result, but maybe with different convergence speeds. However, in practice, the difference could be dramatic.

In finance, there is a branch of analytics called `technical analysis` that studies such patterns to help to make predictions from them. ***We would like our system to be able to discover the patterns (if they exist).***

- To achieve this, we will convert every bar's open, high, low, and close prices to three numbers showing high, low, and close prices represented as a percentage of the open price.
- This representation has its own drawbacks, as ***we're potentially losing the information about key price levels.***
  - For example, it's known that markets have a tendency to bounce from round price numbers (like $8,000 per bitcoin) and levels that were turning points in the past. 